# North Star

## Intro
Finding a North Star and orienting your strategy towards optimizing for that north star behaviour is pretty common. What does finding a North star mean? It means that you find a customer behaviour which you can represent with a metric that single-handedly represents the core value your product delivers to your customers. It is super helpful to align all your product development efforts behind this single elusive, metric. It is harder, as your product grows in complexity and scale, to find one single metric that represents the company's strategy. One example of a company achieving this is Amplitude, who shared their North Star framework recently. Theirs is "Weekly Learning Users: the count of active Amplitude users who have shared a learning that is consumed by at least two other people in the previous seven days.”

## When to Run
In strategic prioritization sessions. You can do this at the company, product area, or team level when choosing a single area of focus for an extended time period. This isn't a "project" metric, it's a product metric. It needs to be sufficiently predictive of value delivered to the customer that it is useful, and sufficiently sensitive that your actions move the needle. As a counter example, LTV is a great measure of value generated by a customer over a long-enough period of time, but it might lag your product/marketing/pricing/other changes by months. Your north star is supposed to be the metric that predicts LTV because your customers are accruing value they can't get elsewhere. 

## Why to Run
Having a north star is extremely valuable. The metric won't be perfect, but it will be sufficiently predictive that it will allow your team(s) to define a product discovery roadmap that contributes to actual customer value. If you can drive this behaviour, through whatever tactics, you're likely nailing the key JTBD your customers come to you for.

## Roles
* PM
* Team
* External Experts
* Data Analysts / Scientists - specialists who can help you identify those proxies that drive real organisation growth and value delivery.

## How to Run
Note: This playbook is largely based on Amplitude's method.
1) Open Intro Discussion: Clarify the problem space. 
* What problems are we solving as a team? 
** What would it look like if we had a greater sense of impact in our work?
** Do we all clearly understand our product strategy? What prevents us from having clarity?
** How is our investment in product now connected to future business performance? What’s the relationship between product work and our financial results (think WLU to LTV relationship)?
2) Game Selection: Identify the game you're playing
* Attention: Social networks, consumer media, gaming. they try to capture your attention for as long as possible and then find ways to monetize that attention (ads, in-app purchases etc)
* Transaction: Marketplaces, Ecommerce, Fintech. They try to get you to transact within their platform as much as possible.
* Productivity: Figma, Salesforce, Intercom, Confluence. They try to get you to do your job better, faster, with less errors and get you to where you need to go. 
3) Input Selection:
* Identify the key behaviours that you want to incentivize within your customers that reflect your key value proposition and your business model. Those are the inputs to your north star formula.
* A common input pattern is to think about Breadth, Depth, Frequency, and Efficiency. For example for instacart, metrics along these dimensions could be:
** Breadth: number of customers placing orders each month
** Depth: number of items within an order
** Frequency: number of orders completed per customer each month
** Efficiency: Percentage of orders delivered on time
4) Pretend North Star:
* Pick a product you use every day and select a North Star for it, with inputs (your function's parameters), the north star and its impact (what the business impact of effecting that north star would be)
* Discuss your north stars as a group to brainstorm potential pitfalls and advantages
5) Silent Design:
* Everyone goes away and thinks about that same exercise for your business
6) Pair and Share
* You pair with one other person and share the rationale, the risks and opportunities associated with your north star
7) Converge
* You come together as a group and converge on a common canvas with your inputs, north star and business impact. Don't forget this is just the start of your journey, you now need everyone else to be bought in too!

## Related plays:
* [Amplitude's North Star Framework](https://amplitude.com/north-star/about-the-north-star-framework)
* [Sean Ellis' - What is a North Star](https://blog.growthhackers.com/what-is-a-north-star-metric-b31a8512923f)
